# evolutiongame
Term project, created in C. Something like game of evolution but more advanced.
Questions, comments: pawel.wis93@gmail.com

README configured for Debian like systems.

1. Compilation
Before installation make sure, that GTK+ 2.0 is installed on your computer. For Debian like system type:
  $ sudo apt-get install libgtk2.0-dev
  
When downloaded unpack/copy into chosen directory. To compile type:
  $ make all
To install type
  $ sudo make install
  
2. Cleaning
To clean directory of C and object files, type:
  $ make clean

To fully unistall, type:
  $ sudo make clall
  
3. Simulation 
  To run simulation install it and type:
  lGoEv
  The object of Little Game of Evolution is to pass Term project :)
  Choose the SPIECES combobox to choose field type to mark on the map (big white one).
  Choose RANDOM button to draw a map (it may be stupid).
  Choose CLEAR to clean map and zero timer.
  Choose START button to begin simulation. (PAUSE is to pause it)
  
4. Rules
  There are 4 types of fields: Land, Plant, Herbivore, Carnivore. 

4.1 Types of fields
  Land is just regular field with no additional features.
  Plant is a field that imitiates... Plants! It doesn't move but it spread (explained further).
  Herbivore is a field that imitiates herbivores. It can move, feeds with plants and can reproduce with another herbivore.
  Carnivore is a field that imitiates (surprise)... Carnivore. It can move, but cannot enter the field with plant, feeds with herbivores and reproduce with another carnivore.

4.2 Moving
  Each creature can move in random direction. There are special events where they are to enter non-land field:
  - when herbivore enters the plant, herbivores eats it,
  - when carnivores enters the herbivore field (or vice versa), carnivore eats herbivore,
  - when creature is to enter same creature field type, they can reproduce and they stay still in the field
  - when carnivore is to enter plant field, moving direction is drawn once again (but only once).
  
4.3 Feeding
  Each field has it's life value. When you choose RANDOM button or when you draw your own map, there are some starting value for each field. Later they drop down every day.
  Field   | Life  | Daily drop 
  Land    | 0     | 0
  Plant   | 100   | 2
  Herb    | 60    | 1
  Carn    | 50    | 4
  
  When creat eats another creat it all life points eaten creat had in a moment

4.4 Reproduction
  Creatures can reproduces with each other only when they both has more than 100 life points. New field around creature is drawn, when it's free new creature is formed, else nothing happend.
  Reproduction takes 1/3 of each creature points in order to transfer for a new creature. 
  
acknowledgements
Thanks a lot to Maksymilian Pasek! He was author of struct MapFields (later developed by me). Also explained me a MVC model and g_timeout_add function.
